# Task10_Lvl02-Capstone01

Poised is a java file that creates objects, by means of project and person classes, and calls methods to execute functions in order to manage projects and persons assigned to the projects.

## Functions
Different project objects and person objects are created using classes. The program allows the user to select different options to execute: 
- Create a new project
- Change the due date of an existing project
- Change the total paid to date of an existing project.
- Update the contractor's contact details.
- Finalize the project.

Methods were created for each of these options.

### Create a new project
The program allows the user to create new projects and capture all the details of a project. This includes:
- Project number.
- Project name.
- Building type (house/apartment/store etc)
- Physical address of the project.
- ERF number.
- Total fee for the project.
- Total paid to date.
- Deadline of the project.
- Name, telephone number, email address and physical address of the project architect.
- Name, telephone number, email address and physical address of the project contractor.
- Name, telephone number, email address and physical address of the project customer.

If the user does not enter a name, one will automatically be generated by the customer last name and the type of building being designed.

The project is then saved in array which can accessed. 

### Change the due date
The user can change an existing project's due date, by entering the project number. The new project due date is requested. The updated project information is written to the project array. 

### Change the total paid to date
The user can change an existing project's total paid to date, by entering the project number. The new total paid to date is requested. The updated project information is written to the project array. 

### Update the contractor's details
The user can change a contractor's contact details allocated to an existing project, by entering the project number. The new contact details are requested. The updated details are then written to the relevant person object and updated in the project array. 

### Finalize the project
The user can finalize a project, by entering the project number to finalize. If this option is selected the program checks if the total paid is equal to the fee of the project. If it is not, it means that there is an outstanding balance and an invoice is generated. An invoice is then displayed with the customer's details as well as the amount payable. The project is also marked as final and placed written to a completed projects array. 

## Use 
This program is useful for small architecture companies that want to manage project, personnel and customer data. It allows users to allocate people to projects and to edit the data, as the project progresses. 

## Contributors
Contributors include Nadia Botha and HyperionDev. 

Please send an email to nadiamarais@live.co.za regarding any issues. Provide include a brief description and screenshot of the issue in the email, with Project Manager as the email subject. 

## Installing and running the program
Install the Java Development kit, by following the steps provided [here](https://www3.ntu.edu.sg/home/ehchua/programming/howto/JDK_HowTo.html#jdk-install).

If not done yet, install an IDE capable of running java. Two popular IDE's are IntelliJIdea, which can be downloaded [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) or Eclipse, which can be downloaded [here](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/).

After successfully installing an IDE, download and save all the .java files in the GitHub repository to the IDE workspace. Make sure that all the files are in the same folder.

Open Poised.java and run the file. Follow the instructions as displayed in the program.

